.TH UPS\-CONFIG.JSON 4 "JUNE 2022" "rickslab-ups-utils" "Ricks-Lab UPS Utilities File Formats"
.nh
.SH NAME
ups-config.json \- defines UPS identification and communication parameters

.SH SYNOPSIS
.ul
\fB[REPOSITORY Directory]\fR
.br
/ups-config.json
.br
/usr/share/rickslab-ups-utils/config/ups-config.json
.br
~/share/rickslab-ups-utils/config/ups-config.json

.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
.ul
ups-config.json
contains the definitions of parameters critical to the functioning of \fBups-utils\fR. A
template for the creation of this file is provided in the distribution package as
.ul
ups-config.json.template
and should be used as a base for creating a usable
\fBups-config.json\fR
file.  The file is in standard JSON format, with an entry for each UPS intended to be
used with \fBusp-utils\fR. Each entry begins with a text key as a unique UPS identifier.
In the sample below, these identifiers are "1", "2", and "3".  Each identifier is
followed by a dictionary of key/value pairs that define identification/communication
parameters for each UPS.  The \fB"ups_IP"\fR value is the IP address or FQDN of the
UPS.  The \fB"display_name"\fR value is the name of the UPS as expected to be displayed
by \fBups-utils\fR.  The \fB"ups_type"\fR value indicates the UPS/NMC combination of the
given UPS.  Currently, only "apc-ap9630" and "eaton-pw" are supported.  Other values will
be treated as incompatible. The \fB"daemon"\fR value should be true if it is the UPS that
supplies power to the machine running the utility.  The \fB"snmp_community"\fR is the
shared secret used in the snmp v2 protocol.

.TP
{
.RS 4
    "1": {"ups_IP": "192.168.1.241",
.br
          "display_name": "UPS1",
.br
          "ups_type": "apc-ap9630",
.br
          "daemon": true,
.br
          "snmp_community": "secret"},
.br
    "2": {"ups_IP": "192.168.1.242",
.br
          "display_name": "UPS2",
.br
          "ups_type": "eaton-pw",
.br
          "daemon": false,
.br
          "snmp_community": "secret"},
.br
    "3": {"ups_IP": "192.168.1.243",
.br
          "display_name": "UPS3",
.br
          "ups_type": "apc-ap9630",
.br
          "daemon": false,
.br
          "snmp_community": "secret"}
.br
.RE
}

.SH "FILES"
.TP
.ul
ups-utils.ini
This file is used to define required directory paths, script names, and script parameters.
.TP
.ul
ups-config.json
This file is used to define ups communication parameters for all UPSs intended to be monitored.

.SH "FILE LOCATIONS"
.TP
.nr step 1 1
The configuration files of \fBrickslab-ups-utils\fR can be located in 3 possible locations and are
selected with the following order of priority:
.RS 7
.IP \n[step] 3
repository directory  - Chosen only if executed from repository directory.
.IP \n+[step]
/usr/share/rickslab-ups-utils/config/  -  Used with install from debian package.  In this case, file
permissions and group ownership must be managed.  The
.ul
ups-utils.ini
contains sensitive information, snmp shared secret, and should be readable only by root and a group
who's members are trusted with this secret.  It is suggested to create a upsutils group and add
trusted members and then chgrp of
.ul
ups-utils.ini
to this new group.  You must finally change permissions to be readable and writeable by only group
and root (660).
.IP \n+[step]
~/share/rickslab-ups-utils/config/   -  Used with pip install, if above is not available.
.RE

.SH BUGS
Please report any bugs/issues at https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/ups-utils

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR groupadd (1),
.BR chgrp (1),
.BR chmod (1),
.BR adduser (1),
.BR usermod (1),
.BR ups-ls (1),
.BR ups-mon (1),
.BR ups-daemon (1),
.BR ups-utils.ini (4),
.BR snmp (8)

.SH AVAILABILITY
Setup of the \fBups-utils.ini\fR file is a requirement of the rickslab-ups-utils package and is
available from https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/ups-utils
