.TH UPS\-UTILS.INI 4 "JUNE 2022" "rickslab-ups-utils" "Ricks-Lab UPS Utilities File Formats"
.nh
.SH NAME
ups-utils.ini \- defines required directory paths, script names, and script parameters

.SH SYNOPSIS
.ul
\fB[REPOSITORY Directory]\fR
.br
/ups-utils.ini
.br
/usr/share/rickslab-ups-utils/config/ups-utils.ini
.br
~/share/rickslab-ups-utils/config/ups-utils.ini

.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
.ul
ups-utils.ini
contains the definitions of parameters critical to the functioning of \fBups-utils\fR. A
template for the creation of this file is provided in the distribution package as
.ul
ups-utils.ini.template
and should be used as a base for creating a usable
.ul
ups-utils.ini
file.

.TP
\fBFirst section defines path names:\fR
These path names are required in order to access scripts
defined in the second section.  When using \fBups-utils\fR to manage a machine running BOINC,
\fBboinc_home\fR must define the location of root of BOINC where executables are located.

.RS 12
\fB[DaemonPaths]\fR
.br
\fBboinc_home\fR = /home/boinc/BOINC/
.br
\fBups_utils_script_path\fR = ~/pydev/ups-utils/
.RE

.TP
\fBSecond section defines script names:\fR
There are 4 scripts that need to be defined which are meant
to suspend high power usage jobs when on battery or overloading the batter and to resume them when power
returns.  A shutdown script is defined for when the battery level is critical and a cancel shutdown script
is used if power is recovered before shutdown completes.

.RS 12
\fB[DaemonScripts]\fR
.br
\fBsuspend_script\fR = pauseBOINC.sh
.br
\fBresume_script\fR = resumeBOINC.sh
.br
\fBshutdown_script\fR = shutdownBOINC.sh
.br
\fBcancel_shutdown_script\fR = cancelShutdownBOINC.sh
.RE

.TP
\fBThird section defines ups-utility parameters:\fR
These parameters are in pairs with the read_interval specifying both \fBups-mon\fR and \fBups-daemon\fR
read intervals in seconds. The remaining UPS related parameters specify critical and warning levels used by
both \fBups-mon\fR and \fBups-daemon\fR. The \fBups-monitor\fR utility will color relevant items
red/yellow when tripping critical/warning levels. If running, \fBups-daemon --daemon\fR, will decrease
update interval for \fBthreshold_battery_time_rem\fR or \fBthreshold_battery_capacity\fR reaching warning
level and execute \fBshutdown_script\fR if critical level is reached.  For \fBthreshold_time_on_battery\fR
and \fBthreshold_battery_load\fR, the \fBsuspend_script\fR will be executed on tripping critical limit.

.RS 12
\fB[DaemonParameters]\fR
.br
\fBread_interval\fR = (10, 30)
.br
\fBthreshold_env_temp\fR = (35, 28)
.br
\fBthreshold_battery_time_rem\fR = (5, 10)
.br
\fBthreshold_time_on_battery\fR = (3, 2)
.br
\fBthreshold_battery_load\fR = (90, 80)
.br
\fBthreshold_battery_capacity\fR = (10, 50)
.RE

.SH "FILES"
.TP
.ul
ups-utils.ini
This file is used to define required directory paths, script names, and script parameters.
.TP
.ul
ups-config.json
This file is used to define ups communication parameters for all UPSs intended to be monitored.

.SH "FILE LOCATIONS"
.TP
.nr step 1 1
The configuration files of \fBrickslab-ups-utils\fR can be located in 3 possible locations and are
selected with the following order of priority:
.RS 7
.IP \n[step] 3
repository directory  - Chosen only if executed from repository directory.
.IP \n+[step]
/usr/share/rickslab-ups-utils/config/  -  Used with install from debian package.  In this case, file
permissions and group ownership must be managed.  The
.ul
ups-utils.ini
contains sensitive information, snmp shared secret, and should be readable only by root and a group
who's members are trusted with this secret.  It is suggested to create a upsutils group and add
trusted members and then chgrp of
.ul
ups-utils.ini
to this new group.  You must finally change permissions to be readable and writeable by only group
and root (660).

.IP \n+[step]
~/share/rickslab-ups-utils/config/   -  Used with pip install, if above is not available.
.RE

.SH BUGS
Please report any bugs/issues at https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/ups-utils

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR groupadd (1),
.BR chgrp (1),
.BR chmod (1),
.BR adduser (1),
.BR usermod (1),
.BR ups-ls (1),
.BR ups-mon (1),
.BR ups-daemon (1),
.BR ups-config.json (4),
.BR snmp (8)

.SH AVAILABILITY
Setup of the \fBups-utils.ini\fR file is a requirement of the rickslab-ups-utils package and is
available from https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/ups-utils
