.TH UPS\-MONITOR 1 "October 2020" "rickslab-ups-utils" "Ricks-Lab UPS Utilities"
.nh
.SH NAME
ups-monitor \- displays continuously updating status of all active UPSs

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ups-monitor
.RB [ \-\-help "] [" \-\-about "] [" \-\-status "] [" \-\-long "] [" \-\-show_unresponsive " ] [" \-\-gui "]"
.RB [ \-\-log "] [" \-\-sleep " N ] [" \-\-debug "]"
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ups-monitor
A utility to give the current state of all compatible UPSs. The default behavior
is to continuously update a text based table in the current window until Ctrl-C is
pressed.  With the \fB--gui\fR option, a table of relevant parameters will be updated
in a Gtk window.  You can specify the delay between updates with the \fB--sleep N\fR
option where N is an integer > 10 that specifies the number of seconds to sleep
between updates.  The \fB--log\fR option is used to write all monitor data to a psv log
file.  When writing to a log file, the utility will indicate this in red at the top of
the window with a message that includes the log file name.  The \fB--status\fR option will
output a table of the current status.  The \fB--long\fR option will include additional
informational parameters. By default, unresponsive UPSs will not be displayed, but the
\fB--show_unresponsive\fR can be used to force their display.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR "\-\-about"
Will display details about 
.B ups-monitor\fP.
.TP
.BR \-d , " \-\-debug"
Will run in debug mode which enables the logger at debug level.
.TP
.BR "\-\-status"
Will display a snapshot of the current status of configured UPSs.
.TP
.BR "\-\-long"
Will use the full list of MiB commands in a more comprehensive view of the configured UPSs.
.TP
.BR "\-\-show_unresponsive"
Will result in unresponsive configured UPSs to be included in the summary.
.TP
.BR "\-\-gui"
Will use Gtk gui instead of a text table in the current terminal.
.TP
.BR "\-\-log"
Will output the continuous stream of data to a log file to facilitate offline analytics.
.TP
.BR "\-\-sleep" N
Specifies the update interval for the continuously updating status.
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text and exit.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.nf
.B ups-monitor
.br
Reading and verifying UPSs listed in config.json
3 UPSs listed in config.json file.
    3 are compatible, 3 are accessible, 3 are responsive

┌─────────────────────────────┬────────────────────────┬────────────────────────┬────────────────────────┐
│UPS Parameters               │UPS1                    │UPS2                    │UPS3                    │
├─────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────┼────────────────────────┼────────────────────────┤
│ups_type                     │apc-ap9630              │eaton-pw                │apc-ap9630              │
│ups_IP                       │192.168.1.241           │192.168.1.242           │UPS3.rickslab.com       │
│Percentage of Total Capacity │100                     │100                     │100                     │
│Time on Battery              │(0.0, ' 0:00:00.00')    │[0.0, '0:00:00']        │(0.0, ' 0:00:00.00')    │
│Runtime Remaining            │(153.61, ' 1:32:10.00') │[47.0, '0:47:00']       │(37.36, ' 0:22:25.00')  │
│Input Voltage                │115                     │118.1                   │115                     │
│Input Frequency Hz           │60                      │60.0                    │60                      │
│Output Voltage               │120                     │110.0                   │120                     │
│Output Frequency Hz          │60                      │60.0                    │60                      │
│Output Load as % of Capacity │27                      │20                      │25                      │
│Output Current in Amps       │6                       │4.6                     │6                       │
│Output Power in W            │733                     │474                     │660                     │
│UPS System Status            │OnLine-SCE-On           │Standby                 │OnLine-SCE-On           │
│Battery Status               │Battery Normal          │Battery Normal          │Battery Normal          │
└─────────────────────────────┴────────────────────────┴────────────────────────┴────────────────────────┘
.fi

.SH CONFIGURATION
Before \fBups-utils\fR can be used, the
.ul
ups-utils.ini
and
.ul
ups-config.json
files must be populated with details specific to the user's environment.

.SH "FILES"
.TP
.ul
ups-utils.ini
This file is used to define required directory paths, script names, and script parameters.
.TP
.ul
ups-config.json
This file is used to define ups communication parameters for all UPSs intended to be monitored.

.SH "FILE LOCATIONS"
.TP
.nr step 1 1
The configuration files of \fBrickslab-ups-utils\fR can be located in 3 possible locations and are
selected with the following order of priority:
.RS 7
.IP \n[step] 3
repository directory  - Chosen only if executed from repository directory.
.IP \n+[step]
/usr/share/rickslab-ups-utils/config/  -  Used with install from debian package.
.IP \n+[step]
~/share/rickslab-ups-utils/config/   -  Used with pip install, if above is not available.
.RE

.SH BUGS
Please report any bugs/issues at https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/ups-utils

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ups-ls (1),
.BR ups-daemon (1),
.BR ups-utils.ini (4),
.BR ups-config.json (4),
.BR snmp (8)

.SH AVAILABILITY
The ups-monitor command is part of the rickslab-ups-utils package and is available from
https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/ups-utils
