.TH UPS\-MON 1 "JUNE 2022" "rickslab-ups-utils" "Ricks-Lab UPS Utilities"
.nh
.SH NAME
ups-mon \- displays continuously updating status of all active UPSs

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ups-mon
.RB [ \-\-help "] [" \-\-about "] [" \-\-status "] [" \-\-show_unresponsive " ] [" \-\-gui "]"
.RB [ \-\-ltz "] [" \-\-sleep " N ] [" \-\-debug "] [" \-\-debug "]"
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ups-mon
A utility to give the current state of all compatible UPSs. The default behavior
is to continuously update a text based table in the current window until Ctrl-C is
pressed.  With the \fB--gui\fR option, a table of relevant parameters will be updated
in a Gtk window.  You can specify the delay between updates with the \fB--sleep N\fR
option where N is an integer > 10 that specifies the number of seconds to sleep
between updates.  The \fB--log\fR option is used to write all monitor data to a psv log
file.  When writing to a log file, the utility will indicate this in red at the top of
the window with a message that includes the log file name.  The \fB--status\fR option will
output a table of the current status.  The \fB--long\fR option will include additional
informational parameters. By default, unresponsive UPSs will not be displayed, but the
\fB--show_unresponsive\fR can be used to force their display.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR "\-\-about"
Will display details about 
.B ups-mon\fP.
.TP
.BR "\-\-status"
Will display a snapshot of the current status of configured UPSs.
.TP
.BR "\-\-show_unresponsive"
Will result in unresponsive configured UPSs to be included in the summary.
.TP
.BR "\-\-gui"
Will use Gtk gui instead of a text table in the current terminal.
.TP
.BR "\-\-log"
Will output the continuous stream of data to a log file to facilitate offline analytics.
.TP
.BR "\-\-sleep" " N"
Specifies the update interval for the continuously updating status.
.TP
.BR " \-\-ltz"
Will result in the use of the local time zone in the monitor window and logs.  This will
be the local time of where the app is running, not the location of the UPS.  The default
is UTC.
.TP
.BR \-d , " \-\-debug"
Will run in debug mode which enables the logger at debug level.
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text and exit.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.nf
.B ups-mon --status
.br
Reading and verifying UPSs listed in /home/rick/pydev/ups-utils/UPSmodules/../ups-config.json.
3 UPSs listed in /home/rick/pydev/ups-utils/UPSmodules/../ups-config.json.
    3 are compatible, 3 are accessible, 3 are responsive, and 3 are valid.
┌─────────────────────────────┬────────────────────────┬────────────────────────┬────────────────────────┐
│UPS Parameters               │          UPS1          │          UPS3          │        UPS1-PDX        │
├─────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────┼────────────────────────┼────────────────────────┤
│UPS Real Name                │     RicksLab_UPS1      │     RicksLab_UPS3      │        APC UPS         │
│UPS IP/FQDN                  │     192.168.1.241      │   UPS3.rickslab.com    │    192.168.100.140     │
│UPS Model                    │     SRT3000XLA-TW      │     SRT3000XLA-TW      │    SRT3000RMXLA-NC     │
│UPS Type                     │       apc_ap96xx       │       apc_ap96xx       │       apc_ap96xx       │
│NMC Model                    │         AP9630         │         AP9630         │         AP9641         │
│UPS Location                 │     RicksLab-Rack      │       SophiasLab       │        RicksLab        │
│Daemon                       │          True          │         False          │         False          │
│UPS Environment Temp (C)     │          ---           │          ---           │           26           │
│Input Voltage (V)            │          115           │          116           │          121           │
│Input Frequency (Hz)         │           59           │           60           │           60           │
│Output Voltage (V)           │          120           │          120           │          120           │
│Output Frequency (Hz)        │           60           │           60           │           60           │
│Output Current (A)           │           7            │           0            │           3            │
│Output Power (W)             │          828           │           0            │          288           │
│Output Load as % of Capacity │           31           │           0            │           12           │
│Percentage of Total Capacity │          100           │          100           │          100           │
│Time on Battery (min)        │          0.0           │          0.0           │          0.0           │
│Runtime Remaining (min)      │          82.5          │         1440.0         │         71.28          │
│UPS System Status            │     OnLine-SCE-On      │     OnLine-SCE-On      │     OnLine-SCE-On      │
│Battery Status               │     Battery Normal     │     Battery Normal     │     Battery Normal     │
└─────────────────────────────┴────────────────────────┴────────────────────────┴────────────────────────┘
.fi

.SH CONFIGURATION
Before \fBups-utils\fR can be used, the
.ul
ups-utils.ini
and
.ul
ups-config.json
files must be populated with details specific to the user's environment.

.SH "FILES"
.TP
.ul
ups-utils.ini
This file is used to define required directory paths, script names, and script parameters.
.TP
.ul
ups-config.json
This file is used to define ups communication parameters for all UPSs intended to be monitored.

.SH "FILE LOCATIONS"
.TP
.nr step 1 1
The configuration files of \fBrickslab-ups-utils\fR can be located in 3 possible locations and are
selected with the following order of priority:
.RS 7
.IP \n[step] 3
repository directory  - Chosen only if executed from repository directory.
.IP \n+[step]
/usr/share/rickslab-ups-utils/config/  -  Used with install from debian package.
.IP \n+[step]
~/share/rickslab-ups-utils/config/   -  Used with pip install, if above is not available.
.RE

.SH BUGS
Please report any bugs/issues at https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/ups-utils

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ups-ls (1),
.BR ups-daemon (1),
.BR ups-utils.ini (4),
.BR ups-config.json (4),
.BR snmp (8)

.SH AVAILABILITY
The ups-mon command is part of the rickslab-ups-utils package and is available from
https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/ups-utils
