.TH UPS\-DAEMON 1 "June 2022" "rickslab-ups-utils" "Ricks-Lab UPS Utilities"
.nh
.SH NAME
ups-daemon \- enables the monitoring of and response to UPS events

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ups-daemon
.RB [ \-\-help "] [" \-\-about "]"
.br
.RB [ \-\-daemon "] [" \-\-logfile " LOGFILE]"
.br
.RB [ \-\-ltz "] [" \-\-verbose "] [" \-\-no_markup "] [" \-\-debug "]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ups-daemon
With no options specified, the utility will give the current status of the UPS configured with \fBdaemon = true\fR
in the
.ul
ups-config.json
file. With the \fB--daemon\fR option, \fBups-daemon\fR will continuously check
the status of the UPS.  When it detects that the UPS is sourcing powering from
the battery, it will check the amount of time it has been running on battery
and run the specified suspend script when the specified threshold is exceeded.
It will execute the specified resume script when it detects power has resumed.
When the utility detects a Battery Low event from the UPS or that time
remaining for battery or the battery charge is below specified thresholds,
then the shutdown script will be executed. If \fBups-daemon\fR detects a return
to line power has occurred before the shutdown has completed, it will execute
the cancel shutdown script.  The threshold and script definitions must be made in the
.ul
ups-utils.ini
file using
.ul
ups-utils.ini.template
as a template.  The \fB--logfile\fR option is used to specify a logfile, but is
not implemented at this time.  The \fB--verbose\fR will cause informational
messages to be displayed and \fB--no_markup\fR option will result in plain
text output instead of color coded text.  The logger is enabled with the
\fB--debug\fR option.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR "\-\-about"
Will display details about 
.B ups-ls\fP.
.TP
.BR "\-\-daemon"
Run in daemon mode which is meant to run as a system service.
.TP
.BR "\-\-logfile LOGFILE"
Will set the logfile used in daemon mode.  By default, stdout is used.
.TP
.BR " \-\-ltz"
Will result in the use of the local time zone in the monitor window and logs.  This will
be the local time of where the app is running, not the location of the UPS.  The default
is UTC.
.TP
.BR " \-\-no_markup"
Outputs plain text instead of color formatted text.
.TP
.BR "\-\-verbose"
Output messages for normal events.
.TP
.BR \-d , " \-\-debug"
Will run in debug mode which enables the logger at debug level.
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text and exit.

.SH CONFIGURATION
Before \fBups-utils\fR can be used, the
.ul
ups-utils.ini
and
.ul
ups-config.json
files must be populated with details specific to the user's environment.

.SH "FILES"
.TP
.ul
ups-utils.ini
This file is used to define required directory paths, script names, and script parameters.
.TP
.ul
ups-config.json
This file is used to define ups communication parameters for all UPSs intended to be monitored.

.SH "FILE LOCATIONS"
.TP
.nr step 1 1
The configuration files of \fBrickslab-ups-utils\fR can be located in 3 possible locations and are
selected with the following order of priority:
.RS 7
.IP \n[step] 3
repository directory  - Chosen only if executed from repository directory.
.IP \n+[step]
/usr/share/rickslab-ups-utils/config/  -  Used with install from debian package.
.IP \n+[step]
~/share/rickslab-ups-utils/config/   -  Used with pip install, if above is not available.
.RE

.SH BUGS
Please report any bugs/issues at https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/ups-utils

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ups-mon (1),
.BR ups-ls (1),
.BR ups-utils.ini (4),
.BR ups-config.json (4),
.BR snmp (8)

.SH AVAILABILITY
The ups-ls command is part of the rickslab-ups-utils package and is available from
https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/ups-utils
